rename drilldown links to explore in kibana (#517)
logzio/logz-docs: _source/user-guide/infrastructure-monitoring/explore-in-kibana.md

---
layout: article
title: Explore in Kibana
permalink: /user-guide/infrastructure-monitoring/explore-in-kibana-drilldown-links
flags:

>   logzio-plan: pro

Author: ```suggestion
  logzio-plan: community
```

  - daniel-tk
---

**Explore in Kibana** are drilldown links that give you a direct shortcut from your Metrics' visualizations to the relevant logs in Kibana.

> You'll find that many of the dashboards provided out-of-the-box by Logz.io come with **Explore in Kibana** drilldown links preconfigured. But you can also add your own to any dashboards and visualizations. (The only caveat is you'll need to have edit-permissions to the dashboard, so if you don't, duplicate the dashboard first.)

Reviewer: That's not true unfortunately.
We don't have pre-configured explore in kibana links, as they are pretty specific per user. It is mostly something that they need to do own their own (that's why in the guide I wrote there are detailed examples and explanations - so they will have a reference)

> You'll find that many of the dashboards provided out-of-the-box by Logz.io come with **Explore in Kibana** drilldown links preconfigured. But you can also add your own to any dashboards and visualizations. (The only caveat is you'll need to have edit-permissions to the dashboard, so if you don't, duplicate the dashboard first.)

Author: ```suggestion
A few dashboards provided out-of-the-box by Logz.io come with **Explore in Kibana** drilldown links preconfigured. But generally speaking, these are very user-specific, so you'll want to set them up for yourself to suit your particular implementation.  
```

{:.no_toc}

> **Before you begin, you'll need**:

Reviewer: That's not true technically. they don't HAVE to have variables, they can also hard-code the values to the link, although probably no one will ever do that.
So maybe change the phrasing to "we highly recommend on using variables" or something like that...

![Panel configuration, visualization  options](https://dytvr9ot2sszz.cloudfront.net/logz-docs/grafana/panel-config--query--visualization.png)

##### Configure the drilldown link

Click the _General_ icon to the left, and scroll to the **Panel links** section at the bottom. 
Click **+ Add link**.

![Add panel link in Grafana](https://dytvr9ot2sszz.cloudfront.net/logz-docs/grafana/add-drilldown-url.png)

* Set the **Title** to **Explore in Kibana**, unless you want to name it something else.
* Copy this endpoint to the **URL**:

  ```
  /#/explore-kibana-from-grafana?$__url_time_range&query=
  ```
* Write your Kibana query in Lucene syntax. Make sure there are no spaces before and after the `=` operator.

>   It is a good idea to test your query in Kibana Discover to make sure you're getting the intended results.

Reviewer: Great sentence

##### Query syntax and tips

If you're using variables in your query, note that there is a small syntax difference depending on whether you've enabled multi-select or not. 

Here's how to check your variable settings or change them:

<video autoplay loop>
  <source src="https://dytvr9ot2sszz.cloudfront.net/logz-docs/grafana-videos/grafana-variables.mp4" type="video/mp4" />
</video>

* If **Multi-value** or **Include All option** are toggled on, write the variable name as usual - for example `$node`.
* If they are toggled off, write the variable name between double quotes - for example `“$node”`.

> 

Reviewer: Great, exactly

> Suppose you have a **Node** variable filtered on a specific node. If you wish to look for Kubernetes logs related to the specific node your dashboard is currently filtered on, your URL should look like this:

Reviewer: Change "your URL should like this" to "may/might look like this" cause it's only a suggestion, not a must

Test your new drilldown link
by hovering over <i class="fas fa-external-link-alt"></i>
(upper left corner of the panel),
and clicking **Explore in Kibana**.

> ![Drilldown link](https://dytvr9ot2sszz.cloudfront.net/logz-docs/grafana/panel-drilldown-link.png)

Reviewer: Brilliant! Well done!
